Chapter 9. Existence, therefore, so what? All conclusions about the why, how, what, when, and where derive from the axiom: "Existence exists" What about the 'so what?' Unfortunately, here we have reached the limit of capability. Here we depart from the road map of logical deduction and put down the tool of certainty. You have the joy of experiencing the 'so what?' for yourself. As it is not objectively true. It was possible for you not to be experiencing this moment, yet here you are. So, experience and live boldly. Act in a way that increases the total quality of experience for the one consciousness that is everyone. What a beautiful gift to have forks in the road; follow the one that brings the most joy. Experiential Axiomatism is not a magic bullet that turns pain into laughter; pain still hurts. In grief, grieve. In provision, appreciate. In loneliness, yearn. In community, cherish. This ontology may or may not impact your worldview, but rest assured, its conclusions do not harm. It is more freeing and exciting than any religious framework that humans undergoing temporary amnesia could ever imagine. For if true then you exist forever with the unrestrained ability to simulate anything that possibly can exist. You will not eternally reside in something else's world or creation; for there is nothing outside of yourself, and you are not outside of its unity.

Know that you are God. Without any connotation to the word. Just as much as anyone else. Treat others as you would a parallel dimension version of yourself. Jesus once said: 'Do to others what you would have them do to you.' & 'Love your neighbour as yourself.' That is what is actually happening. Forgiving others is forgiving oneself. Hating others is hating oneself. Rest in knowing that you do not need to win. Allow others to express their free will in disagreeing with you. Celebrate experiencing reality through others. In a world that allows for amnesia and polarisation. You may experience a fierce disagreement with others on politics, philosophy, even views of Experiential Axiomatism; yet this framework is equally as unobjective as any other. Tribalism is quashed in this logical understanding and intellectual humility. Embrace selfless selfishness. For all is one and one is all. This is the meaning of life. As a former pastor of a Pentecostal church, I do not identify as 'religious' anymore. Not because I am allergic to the word, I am actually very grateful for the foundation it has provided for my framework, but if I were to identify with any faith-based belief, it would not be based on doctrine or weekly services; my faith and belief is: "If you are not hurting anyone, you are free to live life however you want to." This former pastor still believes that is your God-given right.

Experience, therefore. Sentio Ergo Sum
