Addendum 1. Existence, Therefore, Refute Thank you for spending time with this book. In saying this ontology is irrefutable, it is a claim and a challenge. By irrefutable, I do not mean that it is impossible to refute. Rather, the claim is that there is nothing within existence that refutes it. However, there are things that can refute this ontology should they exist. In listing them, I am not closing a door; I am inviting you to test, poke, challenge, discuss, refute. My hope is that your human enjoyment will be furthered by the joyous ability of pondering the monumental reality of your actualised being: A. Disprove the binary of existence and non-existence. Show a third way and the foundation crumbles. B. Prove gaps in the fabric. This is not Panentheism, it is Ultimate Monotheism. Many religions claim monotheism yet worship God as outside. This is self-refuting polytheism. Prove isolated realms (such as Hell) have no unity with other existing things. C. Prove ex nihilo: show that something can come from nothing, or even that anything that has the potential to exist was once a part of non-existence. D. Prove that some things cannot exist. Not in actualisation but in possibility. E. Prove logical contradictions strip existence of omnipotence. I.e. a rock so big source cannot lift it. Anything logically impossible (squared circle) lacks actualisation preference.

Show that those things can logically exist and fracture the unity of existence when they are mute before they have potential to happen. F. Prove that existence just is. Show that there is just contingency, without consciousness. Even though consciousness is a thing that exists, it never could not. If existence is just a fact, it cannot be anything other than eternally allencompassing.

Prove that preference is not required. Actualisation can come from chance or non-agency. Show a possibility that the presence of consciousness anywhere within the system is a fluke and does not necessitate that consciousness is a fundamental aspect of the system itself. G. Prove time is objective and eternal. Show it is not only actualised within a simulated, internal framework. H. To my fellow existing solipsists, prove that existence has to either be individual or collective. The axiom shows that existence must be both individual and collective. Due to individuality and shared experiences both existing, they logically must be equally eternally true of source. Because God is always all-encompassing, its experiences must be both an individual experience and that of a collective entity, if it was any other way, it would not be God. Even if you believe it can only be the one or the other, the possibility in your mind of both& exists eternally. The counter self-refutes. I. Prove the eternality of the suboptimal. Show that there is no inevitable resolution to wholeness without separation, just endless loops of amnesia. Proving this would require

experiencing non-resolution forever, but that is unfalsifiable and presupposes the axiom. Existence is not forced to simulate by anything internal or external, thus the allowance of endless loops would also be a preferential choice by not stopping it. J. Prove a leap. Show that any link contains a leap, assumption or circular reasoning. Do this while proving the rebuttal has no leaps itself. The most important one last: K. Show how content can control and limit context or prove non existence exists to gap the fabric. For any counter-argument to hold weight, they cannot be furniture. It is refuted by being within the fabric. Prove another room exists separately. Without the argument relying on existing to do so. Experiential Axiomatism does not ask to be believed, followed, or defended. It only asks to be tested. If it is false, it will fail without resistance. Until just one of these points can be logically proved to be objectively certain, this ontology stands as a humble anchor. Existence exists and we have the joy of pondering it. What a gift.
