Chapter 1. The Foundation I experience, therefore I am. We cannot be sure of anything within existence. You can't know if the blue you see is the same as mine. We can't know if the speed of light is different in other universes from ours. Everything a human believes flows from that person's framework and perception of the evidence. One may look upon the evidence before them and conclude the number on the floor is a '6'. The person standing opposite is certain that it is a '9'. The only objective fact is that their experience of perceiving the evidence is a thing that exists. There is only one possible thing you can be certain of: your experience of this moment exists. Without faith, you can know that your experience of reading these words is happening. Without faith you can know your experience exists. This is self-evident and irrefutable. To deny it requires acknowledging the existence of the denial. The axiom: 'Existence exists.' This certainty holds because the axiom is its own proof. That and that alone is the only thing we can be objective about, everything within our experience is fair game. The fact of our experience isn't. The foundational rule: for everything that exists, we must be

agnostic. Not agnostic in 'we do not know.' Rather, agnostic in acknowledging 'we cannot know.' Existence existing is the only thing we don't have to be agnostic about. These words may be real, but you cannot confirm that you aren't simulating the experience of reading them. Every word of this book comes 100% from the author's framework. Every claim to objectivity is mere letters jumbled together. These words are not objectively true; what is true is that existence existed before them and will do so long after they've gone. It is important to clarify that objective truth does not require a framework to be true; it either is or it is not. The certainty of existence and the uncertainty of everything within it is the logical foundation from which we can work from first principles to deconstruct any and all assumptions and rebuild from the roadmap of logic leads us. Postmodernism (truth is subjective to frameworks) and objectivism (truth is true whether observed or not) are both 99% correct. The 1% they miss is the very key to the puzzle. - The postmodernist is correct that we cannot know the content of existence with certainty, but the 1% it fails is that we can know the context with absolute certainty. - The objectivist is correct that truth is true whether it is observed or not, but the 1% it fails is assigning that to anything within existence, rather than to the fact of existence. Both sides of the debate have been arguing from within their respective boxes. We have been so busy debating the furniture

inside the room, we have missed the nature of the room itself. The room existing is the only objective truth. The marriage of 99% postmodernism and 99% objectivism on this 1% foundation creates a new ontological framework: Experiential Axiomatism I experience, therefore I am. Existence is irrefutable due to our experience of it. That is the only certain truth. For everything within existence, we simply cannot know objectively. From this single, immovable starting point, we must work from first principles and rebuild all assumptions from the ground up. This provides us the tool to logically ascertain what has always stared humanity in the face; a truth we've missed in our intellectual arrogance, waging wars over its contents for millennia. From this axiom flows a necessary conclusion that will be proven in the pages ahead: "Because you woke up today, the only logically certain outcome is that Hell cannot exist because God must." That is a bold claim, but you will see it requires no faith or leap of doubt. It is not only by showing every alternative to be selfrefuting; it positively must be true.
