Chapter 3. Existence, therefore, is eternal. Because existence is united as a seamless whole, without nonexistence being able to fracture or gap, this allows us to logically

deduce that existence is eternal. It has no beginning and will have no end. For existence to have a beginning, it would have to emerge from a state of prior non-existence. Ex nihilo nihil fit. From nothing, nothing comes. The impossibility of a beginning For existence to have had a beginning, it must have crossed the impossible boundary. From its absence, with no cause or mechanism or desire to do so, existence sparked from its opposite. This transition immediately creates a paradox. This uncaused spark of somethingness requires a boundary already refuted. A precise instant, state or line separating the total absence of being from the total presence of being. Its potential spark must have previously existed as a potential within total non-existence. Such a potential must have eternally existed, making it a part of the existence not existing yet. We can logically conclude that if existence is a thing that currently exists, there was never a point where it didn't. It has always done so, unbound by any prior absence. The very concept of a beginning for existence requires a paradoxical boundary that must exist to mark the transition; that also doesn't exist in order for non-existence to be true nothingness. The logic

collapses. Furthermore, the unity that we have already established refutes ex nihilo in entirety; not only at source but eternally. Everything that exists has always had that potential. If it is possible, it never was impossible. As there is no boundary with non-existence, there is nothing that does or can exist that at one point could not. Something cannot be created from nothing. Nor can existence actualise something that is outside of existing. If anything is happening, it does so inside existence. Ex nihilo inherently implies a separation from some part of existence to another; or existence creating a separate entity that is outside of itself. Both are paradoxes that break the unity already confirmed. To confirm this, we must fairly weigh up the only possible alternative, showing that it too leads to existence being eternal. But what about time? The objector might rightly say: "Why does existence have to be eternal? It's possible that time is eternal." Within our frameworks, we tend to consider eternity by time. But we must define it not by a never-ending duration of time, but by the unactualised absence of it altogether. To be eternal does not mean lasting forever in time, it means to be without beginning or end in any dimension of change. The objector is correct to point out that there are only two logical possibilities: Either time fundamentally exists as eternal or existence is fundamentally timeless and unbound by it. that is Time itself is either the master or mastered.

However, if time were fundamental and infinite, that creates another paradox. An infinite past would have to be traversed to reach this present moment. If an infinite span of time preceded this moment, it would never have arrived. An infinite regress of time is as logically problematic as any beginning of existence. There are only three viable scenarios: A. Time is non-existent. B. Time is an objective reality, time is a fundamental and eternal part of existence C. Time is an internally actualised experience, a phenomenon within existence, not its container. Since time is experienced, option A is eliminated. To logically analyse option B, we must ask: what is time? Time is the measure of change and relationship between events. We observe that time is not a fixed concept, it is experienced subjectively. As Einstein revealed in his theory of relativity: time dilation occurs the closer to light speed an object moves. In our universe, light travels at 186,282 miles per second. But we have to be agnostic and say that it is possible that other universes may exist where the speed of light could be faster or slower. If time were everlasting, it would be consistent. This universal speed limit may or may not be different in other realities. This puts both time and change squarely in the category of actualised concept. Strictly speaking, time and change cannot be fundamentally a part of the 1% Experiential Axiomatism because, by their very nature, they are prone to variation. If there is nothing changing, there is no time between.

Unless there is an outside force determining what changes manifest. Due to time lacking permanence, only option C remains. It must dwell within existence; thus it cannot control or dominate what limits it. Time and change are at the whim of the whole, not vice versa. The only consistent conclusion is that time is an internal, actualised property of existence. It can be compared to a gust of wind. A gust of wind is a temporary change-bringing energy, yet it exists. How? Only as a temporary force within the limits it is actualised by. Why? We cannot know. Without faith, we can deduce that existence is not new and it endures without end; not as infinite durations of anything internal. Instead, it transcends all chronological limits or origins. United in its unchanging reality outside of time altogether. Existence, therefore, is eternal.
