Chapter 4. The eternity of all potential Existence, therefore, is everything. From the axiom, we have deduced that existence is united and eternal. A third attribute now follows: Existence is everything and all-encompassing. There is nothing, no object, no realm, no law, no potential, that stands outside of it. To deny this is to propose a limit. If existence is not everything, there must be something it is not. An outside. The things it is not would belong to non-existence. This leads to the gatekeeper paradox. For existence to be limited, something must enforce that limit. This 'gatekeeper' must: -Exist, in order to have the power to enforce -Not exist as part of the realm it is limiting, otherwise it is inside the fence, not the fence itself. Any external limit, law, or selector would have to share both sides of an impossible divide. But it is logically impossible for anything to both be and not be. At the risk of repeating the deductions from previous chapters, these paradoxes appear at every stage through unity. If chapter 2 is logically forced by the axiom, every subsequent domino falls. If unity is disproved, the chain breaks. These paradoxes will always appear if the fabric of existence is inherently united with its total lack of non-existence to divide it. The form of existence can be plural, but the fabric cannot. So what exists?

The impossibility of nothing is the inevitability of everything. Existence exists can only lead to the logical inevitability that everything must exist. But in what form? It is important that we distinguish between two equal modes of existence: - Actualised Existence: the forms and events that are currently being manifested. E.g., this book, your body, The Milky Way, our universe. - Potential Existence: every possibility, concept, idea. Everything that it is not impossible that it can be actualised in some reality elsewhere. Actualised energy exists as a realised potential, but that potential is not separate from any unactualised, previous, or future energy. It exists in a different form; one currently actualised and one not. It is possible for you to prompt AI to discuss any possible combination of letters about every alternate reality or concept. That potential reply is a thing that currently exists in the mode of possibility; that potential is not new and will never cross the impossible divide. For example, you might imagine something no one else ever has: A pink elephant in a tuxedo, flying over a rainbow volcano in a golden bathtub on a planet made of sausage. By thinking it, you have not actualised it. However, you have inadvertently acknowledged that it is possible to be real in a different universe. Actualisation isn't eternal, but the canvas of its form is. Not everything that is actualised has done so for eternity. The gust of wind stops, the moment passes. Anything happening is not outside

or separate as the only building blocks for the plural forms of energy are within. Unactualised concepts are not a lesser form of existence, for there is no hierarchy within a united system. Because of our agnosticism for everything within existence, we cannot know if every conceivable event and thing is currently being actualised. Common proponents of such a view are multiverse and simulation theorists who rightly recognise that if multiple universes are true, then they must inevitably encompass the totality of every possible circumstance, unless there is a decider. It is not outside the realm of possibility that there are trillions of simulated multiverses of pink elephants conceiving of humans on a water rock. Nor is it impossible that we are the only universe hosted by source. We cannot know. What we know for certain is that any past, present or future simulations can only happen within the overarching unified fabric of existence. As we've deduced, there can be no outside laws that force it to act, for those laws would have to exist to do so. Existence is all-encompassing in its lack of nothing; it has no restrictions of power to stop or start what it hosts. Its unity ensures omniscience. For if it did not know about every property within, there is a separation between them. This too highlights a paradoxical boundary. Existence is not "all that happens to be." It is "all that could ever be."

Everythingness is not logically optional; it is a necessary deduction of the axiom. This logic applies across the board. Ex nihilo is impossible in entirety; not only for the whole but for any part within it. Any truth of ex nihilo anywhere in the system breaks the chain by implying a separation from one part of existence to another. The classical theistic religious view that God has created a separate entity other than itself, or a theology of God as the supreme entity of all beings are both paradoxes that violate the unity and everythingness of monotheism. A Formidable Objection But the objector has a brilliant and fascinating point that demands addressing: "But what about logical impossibilities? Some things aren't possible, doesn't this refute 'everything' as all-encompassing? Omnipotence cannot be true as it is a paradox. Can source create a rock so big it cannot lift it? If yes, its power is limited. If no its ability is limited." These are very sharp logical deductions, but even following their conclusions leads to the strengthening of the axiom. The objector is right to challenge omnipotence, for if it fails the chain is broken. The argument is that logical impossibilities cannot exist, which breaks unity. Or if they can exist, their self-contradictory nature violates unity. For example, a square circle cannot exist. Thus it is a part of nonexistent creating a boundary with existence. This is a definitional

impossibility, no form or actualisation resolves it.

Consider the rock so big the source cannot lift it. If the source can actualise it, then it cannot lift it. Either outcome negates omnipotence, as the source fails one task. Omnipotence means the ability to actualise or prefer any possible thing without restriction. There are two responses to this excellent poke: the first one is the lighter entree to warm the palate. Not only is the rock so big source can't lift it eternally possible. You are currently experiencing it. You are the god that cannot lift Mt. Everest that you created. The very objector is actualising this very argument. A squared circle may be impossible for our reality, but that doesn't mean source can't simulate a 9D universe where a square and a circle merge into the same thing. But again, this is a sidestep. However, it highlights the need that any category can only limit existence if it is fundamental. For a logical impossibility like married bachelors or squared circles to limit source in power or ability, it must be a fundamental part of existence, otherwise it is limited within. But in all seriousness this counter-argument demands a rigorous logical analysis. Intellectual integrity insists that we stress test omnipotence. We must ask: Is source limited by a lack of ability to create? Is it possible for source to create something... else? Such an energy would have to exist to be a thing. But can source

create ex nihilo if it wanted to? The objector points out that it cannot be all-encompassing if the answer to that is no. It is a requirement of omnipotence. How can this be reconciled with an axiom that deduces all actualisation to be united with no paradoxical boundaries? The axiom proves that no outside force or laws limit God. This also means it has full agency to never act in a way that it doesn't want to. To create such a thing would be source's decision to violate its own isness. This hints at another fundamental objective property of existence: God inherently prefers. God is all-powerful and omnipotent with unrestricted ability and agency to actualise its own self-destruction. But it equally encompasses the full ability and agency to prefer unity. The fact we are discussing this topic proves that a self-destruct button or an ex nihilo creation is eternally possible as a concept, it will never be actualised by preference. There is no fundamental and objective paradox within omnipotence. For any limit is a self-imposed choice. Not restricted through necessity or absence, but by the very 'isness' of its all-willingness to not do it. Instead of the objector's claim of cannotness. Thus, Experiential Axiomatism is the only non-paradoxical way for omnipotence to be logically preserved without contradiction.

Therefore, existence contains the potential for everything. Eternally being and eternally choosing to be everything. And you.
