Chapter 5. Existence, therefore, is conscious. Since existence is everything, it must fully encompass all physical and immaterial properties. You are choosing to read this book currently. You can put it down and pick it up at will. You are demonstrating the existence of conscious preference in your actions. Such volition has not spawned from a void. Nor are you different to source; creation cannot out-god god. If a single wasp exists outside of unified awareness then the necessary unity of source is refuted. It is not merely aware of the wasp, like a spectator watching a movie, it is united with its every buzz. Not only is source united with every experience you have, it experiences them infinitely more than you currently can in your human-sized experience suit. This universe is being hosted inside existence. Everything happens internally, for there are no other building blocks to play with. Remember, stasis is as equal an option as dynamism. Every event is occurring inside the will of source. We have confirmed that awareness, sentience and agency exist. You are experiencing them all at this very moment. If consciousness exists, it has the ability to will. If agency exists, it can only do so through sentience. It is why a human loses all agency when they fall unconscious. They

are linked in being totally present or absent. Experiential Axiomatism does not posit the source to be like a big brain merely observing. The foundation of this ontology is that existence must be inherently aware, conscious, and willing the experience or lack thereof of the stuff that is certainly happening. Because this issue in particular will likely receive a lot of pushback, it is necessary to solidify it and finally solve the hard problem of consciousness. Not only by the axiom being logically possible but showing all alternatives create impossible paradoxes. From the axiom of existence existing, let us break down and prove beyond doubt that consciousness is irrefutably a fundamental part of the 1 per cent through the logical exhaustion of other possibilities. There are three possibilities available for consciousness: A. Consciousness is an emergent property, it happens as the offshoot of existence. It has developed from non-conscious elements B. Consciousness is an illusion, a facade, not objectively real C.Consciousness is fundamental to existence, eternal and objective Consciousness is experienced. Option B refutes itself as its illusion would have to exist inherently. Its possibility of deceiving would have to be eternally possible. Real in not yet illusion. Or, the inevitable future deceived conscious exists as destiny, or an eternal deceiver using consciously deciding what gets deceived. Only A and C remain. Whichever one it is the foundation of its

temporary absence of the other. Logic insists the temporary will always serve the unity of the other. Either option requires consciousness to eternally exist. Only option C is non-paradoxical. For a blind mechanism to have an effective role, that role must have been consciously decided prior to its function. Option A confirms itself; option C contradicts itself by requiring inevitability to fundamentally exist. If consciousness is inevitable, this too means that its concept fundamentally exists eternally as destined outcome. 'Possible certainty' is a contradiction; 'inevitable somethings' is a paradox Logic insists that there is no middle ground of the binary. There is no third thing between that which exists and that which can't. It is fact not faith that potential everything's exists at the expense of inevitable somethings. It is just as certain as your perception of this moment is a thing that undeniably exists. You are a conscious being. That you have consciousness, but the source does not is an illogical and impossible concept. The refutation of ex nihilo means that no aspect of creation has emerged a qualitative experience from total absence. It would require a transition from non-experience giving rise to experience. It insists there is something that exists in us that existence itself does not have. This is a violation of the axiom we

have established. Consciousness, therefore, has not emerged from non-conscious elements; it must have had the possibility of existing for eternity. Because an emergent consciousness would violate the unity of existence. Option A is refuted; option C is deduced. Option B presents another possibility; consciousness does not actually exist, it is merely an illusion. But for sentience to be non-existent yet an actualised illusion, there has to exist both a conscious experiencer and deceiver for the illusion to be actualised. If they did not exist (not possible), then even this shows any illusion of consciousness would have to preexist them, inherent in source eternally.

The statement 'consciousness is an illusion' is itself a conscious thought that exists; proving the very reality it attempts to deny. This is a performative contradiction and logically self-destructs. To deny consciousness while using it to deny itself is like claiming 'I do not exist.' The denial exists and proves what it attempts to refute. So an emergent or illusory consciousness can be positively ruled out through inherent paradox. For fundamental consciousness to be logically forced, it must not merely rely on its necessity through impossible alternatives. The axiom is united in confirming itself all alternatives are selfrefuting impossibilities that require themselves.

Because we experience separateness everywhere, humans have sought to define ourselves by our not-nothingness instead of our not-everythingness.

If existence exists anywhere, it exists everywhere. Your experience confirms that you exist. You are God, enabling, embodying, and exemplifying the authentic experience of temporary lack of its own essence. It is the beautiful truth of you. Every breath you draw proves that your humanity is not a temporary experience of consciousness, returning to eternal amnesia. You are a human experiencing temporary amnesia that will return to eternal everything. There is no meaning of life, there is meaning in life. You do not have to find your purpose. Purpose is inherent in everything you are. Fundamental consciousness as the only way In the previous chapter, the paradox of omnipotence highlighted a fork in the road. There is only one fork that logically allows omnipotence to exist and not be a paradox by logical impossibility. That road is also the confirmation that consciousness is fundamental and not an emergent or illusory property: Fork A: Existence is imprisoned, it is not the master of its own fate, but a prisoner at the mercy of something it does not control over (atheists live here) that is blind unconscious mechanisms or a compulsion to follow its 'isness' out of obligation. Fork B: Existence is free. Unforced. Unbound. It has full control over everything it is, and it is everything that is. For an unparadoxical omnipotence to exist in source, it must be free

from coercion or limit. Omnipotence must include the ability to destroy its own godness by breaking the unity of itself. This ongoing decision to not create fractures reveals that unity is not just a passive state, but an ongoing choice. This choice is a conscious choice. Unity insists source is fundamentally conscious in its entirety. If it weren't, the paradox of omnipotence would still stand. This consciousness is omniscient, lacking non-existence in its knowing, thus aware. It is unrestrained in its ability to will. It does not have to juggle its power consumption. To actualise is just as easy as not actualising. It is consciously embodying everything it decides to actualise. Source is not a prisoner of logic or essence, but the author. Even the inherent qualities are not limiting forces, but ongoing, willing, conscious choices. Just as existence cannot not-exist, experience cannot not-beexperienced.

Existence, therefore, is conscious.
