Chapter 6. Existence, therefore, prefers. Let's continue to follow the roadmap of logic to deduce what is content (Postmodern furniture) and what is context (Empirical fact of the room itself). For many, the word 'preference' carries strong connotations. Before continuing we must define it. It is crucial that we strip the word of its anthropomorphic connotation. We must not define preference in the way humans experience it. We need to recategorise it as we do for other attributes of God: The same way our knowledge is similar but not equal to omniscience. The same way our power is similar but not equal to omnipotence. The same way our kindness is similar but not equal to omnibenevolence. The same way our bodies are similar but not equal to omnipresence. The same way our preference is similar but not equal to God's omnipreference. Humans experience hints of these attributes through lack. We are either here or there. We either do this or that. You either read this book or a different one. Source has no such competing limitation.

Our preferences are flimsily tossed by the wind, unpredictably changing from moment to moment, impacted by changing desires. The 'p' word is understandably uncomfortable for some. But stripped of lack and redefined through the lens of fullness, (omni)preference is a fitting descriptor for the why of actualisation. If the chain of the axiom holds, the "Everythingness" of existence implies no limits. Its resources are infinite. It does not have to balance its power consumption. To actualise takes as little effort as not actualising. This forces a deduction that preference is fundamental. There are only three viable possibilities: A. Preference does not exist. It is an illusion B. Preference is fundamental, it is not an emergent property; but eternally objective C. Preference is an actualised concept, it is a part of the furniture. One part amongst many. I.e. whatever hosts it lacks desire and decision. Option A is refuted straight away. You reading this book is a preferential decision. You are preferring it over putting it down. Proponents of option C may say: 'why does causation have to be preference? Why cannot it be mindless mechanism or chance?' Chance is either objective or subjective. If chance drives causation, it must be fundamental, not an actualised concept. To find out which it is, we should fairly analyse it with the logic of the axiom.

What is chance? It is the chaos of unknown outcome. That means it is not linked eternally with its opposite: the stable knowing of all potential outcomes. I.e. omniscience. Omniscience and chance cannot both be objectively true together. One must be the actualised concept of the absence of the other. Either omniscience serves chance by manifesting as the temporary absence of any unforeseeable outcome. Or chance is the actualised experience of temporarily limited omniscience. Because existence is timeless and unchanging, it is united in knowing everything within itself and is not separate. Therefore, chance cannot be an objective force upon existence, but existence is the objective force upon chance. Actualising it to serve the experience of amnesia. Why cannot causation be mindless or chance? Because chance itself exists as proof of the axiom. Let us hypothetically imagine that our Milky Way galaxy happened to be caused by chaotic chance, logic still asserts that it is not an objective law that limits the agency of the source. Thus, the source not stopping chance-based randomness is also a preferential choice in and of itself. Not only does God prefer this universe to happen; it equally does not prefer for it not to. The only alternative for pluralism is the opposite of chance: inevitability. Here we are at another fork in the road: Fork A: Preference is Fundamental. This Universe is actualised by preferable choice. If it wasn't, the decision not to actualise is equally a preferential choice. Preference is inherent either way.

Fork B: Actualisation is Inevitable. There is no inherent preference; there is a blind law or mechanism that doesn't decide. Preference is inevitable eventually. Fork B begs the question: If there is no decider, what is it that is inevitable? • An inevitability of Everything? Refuted by the changing of time. If everything were inevitable at once, the gust of wind would exist at every stage of time; alas, it has stopped. • An inevitability of Nothing? Refuted by our experience of being something. • An inevitable Something? This reintroduces the chain of paradoxes. But even the existence of a blind mechanism would reinforce the axiom. If a blind base has the potential for some parts of it to develop preference, that preference must exist as a possibility that will inevitably manifest. If preference has been eternally possible, it logically could never have been eternally impossible. The inevitable checkmate: If preference must emerge given enough time and complexity, then preference is coded into the base fabric of existence as a guaranteed outcome. If it is guaranteed by fundamental laws, its inevitability makes it a necessary feature, not an accidental one. If actualising is not inevitable, why did the blind, eternally existing, unconscious mechanism emerge a qualitative experience at all? If it is contingent, it decided to actualise before the idea of decision existed.

Both options self-refute. • Inevitability leads to preference being fundamental as Destiny. • Contingency leads to preference being fundamental as Choice. Anyone who rejects a decider must explain how inevitability can be a fundamental law that contains parts within it that are outside of itself. It is rocky ground to use one's own preference to argue for its hosts inevitability. Unity breaks if we are preferential beings with a unique quality that our host doesn't have. A blind mechanism would be an eternal engine enforcing an unending cycle of ex nihilo, not only constantly bringing previous non-qualities into real qualities, but at the same time it equally is forcing the current existant state back to non-existence, changing away from it. Fundamental preference is the only thing stopping an infinite regress. AI examples are helpful because they are blindmechanisms of non-consciousness serving the whole.

Imagine this: it is within the realm of possibility that a future AI or quantum computer will eventually be able to decide whether to simulate or not. It can freely choose its simulations properties, laws, limits, and boundaries. We cannot know if that is happening, but we can know that its possibility (not probability) exists. But it is equally possible that deciding AI is itself simulated by an AI hosting it. But it is equally possible that that deciding AI is itself simulated by... a regress ad infinitum.

The existence of any sentient volition anywhere is not a new ability gained, nor is it unique and outside the fabric of existing. Unity ensures that any potential simulation has to be a sublayer hosted by the will of existence itself. Either preference is fundamental, or creation has outgodded God. If any part of existence is not shared by the whole; that is a fracture. There is a break in the unity. By following the logical roadmap of the axiom; Fork A is deduced both in its necessity and all other paths are unsolvable paradoxes. Not only does the chain of this axiom stand and fall as a selfconfirming unit; the opposite is equally true of any divergence from

it. Any counter-argument of separateness anywhere starts a chain of linked paradoxes, a unit of impossible contradictions. Therefore, preference is not emergent, not illusory, and not merely actualised. It is inherently fundamental. Existence, therefore, prefers
