Chapter 7. Experience, therefore, has meaning 'Existence exists' It is self-evident because any thought, denial, or experience presupposes it. You cannot argue against it without existing to do so. Experiential Axiomatism disarms the need for faith: If existence exists, working from first principles reveals a logical chain that it cannot be new, dictated to, separate from, or outside of itself. Therefore, any existence must be eternally unbound and united. God is not 'doing' existence; God is existence and existence is God. It is not a verb, it is The Noun. It requires no energy or effort. All this stuff happening is just as easy as it not happening. This globe of conscious life appears to have an awful lot of order if it exists only in pure chaos. In Experiential Axiomatism, the duality of chaos and order complement each other. Without chaos, there can be no change. With no change, there can be nothing to order. We see chaos circling around: seasons, orbits, history. Nothing is still, everything is moving in the coming and going of repetition. The cycles we observe aren't accidental; they serve a purpose. Without them, chaos would explode in every direction in complete randomness. Ex inordinatione inordinatio fit, From chaos, chaos comes.

We experience both chaos and order. Logic insists one must be true. The something we experience is either fundamentally united or fundamentally separated. It is as equal a true binary as existence itself either being or not being. They are opposing sides of the same coin. If existence is heads, non-existence is tails. If the coin flipped tails, it would mean the complete totality of an absentness that is nothing-encompassing. But by the same coin, if it lands heads the opposite is equally true. It means the complete totality of an everythingness that is all-encompassing. Not that such a flip happened, the analogy falls short by appealing to actualised chance, but it's a helpful analogy. Of course, it is possible for a coin to land on its side, a mixture of some stuff and some not stuff. A both/neither situation. That is where classical views on existence have lived for centuries. But any gambler recognises that is a very thin surface and I've personally never heard anyone call 'edge'. The Echo Observed Our scientific observations echo the unity deduced from the axiom. As we observe in the first law of thermodynamics: 'Energy can neither be created nor destroyed; it can only be transformed from one form to another.' Nothing truly begins or ends; it only changes state within the whole. Similarly, the quantum realm presents its famous puzzles: we observe a particle in a superposition of multiple possibilities, only manifesting a definite outcome when measured. We observe entangled particles sharing correlations instantly, regardless of distance.

Both phenomena are paradoxes only if we presume separation is fundamental. But if existence is one unified fabric, they are the natural behaviour of a conscious, preferring reality playing with its own furniture. The Game: Hiding and Seeking Have you ever wondered why humans see the evidence of God everywhere, yet it chooses to input from behind the curtain of reality? Just enough so doubt and faith are neutrally possible. "If God wants everyone to be 'saved', why not appear in the sky and reveal itself to everyone?" Because that defeats the point of the game. Hiding and seeking. Why would it diminish the whole point of having stuff happen? For what might be preferable to knowing everything? Experiencing everything. Having some aspect of yourself experience some form of temporary amnesia in the knowledge that it will eternally return. Forgetting your omniscience for the thrill of chance. Foregoing stability and embracing actualised chaos. Why know when you can learn, gain, lose, cry, laugh, hunt, be hunted, feel pain, give love. The question then becomes: "Why choose all of the pain and the suffering? If source is good, then why actualise evil?" Logically, it would not be an authentic experience without it; it would be incomplete. The cycles of yin and yang are necessary opposites for the integrity of the experience. True immersion demands access to both the light and the dark, the joy and the pain, the win and the loss. For the experience to be unenforced and authentic, the system must be neutrally free to explore the entire spectrum of potential.

For without the opportunity to feel the cold, there is no such experience of warmth. All experiences of warmth would be enforced and ungenuine. It is only from the context of feeling true cold that appreciation of warmth emerges. Vice versa. The question of evil has perplexed humans throughout the ages. The only answer we have with certainty is that it is not an objective truth. Nor is it separate from source. Pain is not a punishment from anything outside; everything serves our united preference. God is not allowing any potential for suffering that it is unwilling to go through itself. Experiential Axiomatism asserts that ultimate monotheism is not a distant God permitting a suffering it will never know. This is existence itself, in its unified nature, choosing to feel every sting, every loss, and every moment of despair from the inside as a necessary part of the whole. For the causer cannot be separate from experiencing everything in its entirety. The good, the bad, and the ugly. The experience of pain is real, but so too is our self-willed consent prior to our self-limiting decision to experience it. You didn't ask to be born; you decided to be born. Therefore, Hell certainly does not exist. The axiom proves that God is both united and eternal, as such it is never going to be divided for eternity, the idea of eternal-conscious separation from God in a place called Hell is not only impossible, the very thought is self-refuting. Eternal punishment away from God's presence violates the unity of itself. This is not a belief or a faith; it is certain and proved by the fact that you are breathing right now.

Where faith and religions have stumbled is in associating something within existence and elevating it to be objective truth. But we have established that nothing within existence, including religions and these words, can be objectively correct. The classical theistic framework that God is other or different to creation or that he created ex nihilo and does not embody its experiences, or any theology that preaches that he is the supreme being of all that exists, is a polytheistic wolf in monotheistic sheep's clothing. However, no one can objectively say to a Christian or a Muslim 'you are wrong.' They may be correct for this universe. Maybe our universe is being simulated by a player called Yahweh or Allah who has decided to pass down an infallible scripture. We cannot know. Faith can be a valid option for any sublayers of the stuff that is happening. But it falls short by claiming anything more. What we can know is beyond any and all sublayers; there can only be the existence of an eternally united indivisible potential for everything. Experiential Axiomatism is not Panentheism, it is Ultimate Monotheism. If you are convinced of the axiom that existence exists, then the conclusion is that the empirical is internally simulating postmodern unknowability, so that parts of itself can authentically experience the ticking of time, the chance for change, loving and loathing, hating and having, dying and doing. Any claim of an inherent either/or for anything we experience requires an impossible paradox: time must be fundamentally unchanging to host change. But if time doesn't change, change isn't fundamental.

You have given yourself the both& experience of limited free will; you can choose what to have for dinner tomorrow, but you cannot choose to fly around your dining room. We exist with the ability to change our minds. If you can stop reading this, you're equally not forced to continue. That foundation is preference, not inevitability. Otherwise, your choice of dinner tomorrow would break reality. Humanity walks curiously close to the line between the yin and yang; we are capable of such horror and such sacrifice. A remarkably neutral canvas of experience. This book started off with a bold statement: 'Because you woke up today, the only logically certain outcome is that Hell cannot exist because God must.' You are not having a temporary conscious experience with the purpose of returning to eternal amnesia; you are having a temporary amnesiac experience to return to complete eternal consciousness. Amnesia is the actualised gust of wind because the only thing better than knowing all there is to know about wind is feeling its cooling surprise on a scorching day. You have decided to limit your omniscience for the joy of not knowing. Life is not a prison to survive, but a blessing to be surprised. Any amnesia is temporary, as every part of itself will eventually return to wholeness. Maybe to do it all over again; maybe we have done it billions of times before. But you get to experience it like it is the first time. Experience, therefore, has meaning "Life is a gift, and the Giver is good."
